sweet bell pepper is called so by
no chance it's the most innocent of the
pepper family
it has zero scoville heat units it's the
universal measurement of spiciness
pimento pepper is otherwise called
cherry pepper although it's not
zero scovilles already it's still sweet
and only
mildly spicy which allows it to be eaten
raw
santa fe grande pepper is for those who
value mild heat in their mouth
but still like their veggies uncooked
it's slightly hotter than pimento
and it's a member of the chili family
cubanelle pepper is a variety of chili
peppers that has that pleasant tinge of
heat on your tongue
without actually burning it it's usually
picked before it ripens which is why
it's green
not red poblano is one of the favorites
in mexican cuisine
dark red to brown when ripe it's also
picked green
dark green a dried poblano pepper is
called the ancho chili
the first sauce on this list is tabasco
cayenne
garlic sauce it's a savory and spicy mix
of cayenne pepper
pepper mash red jalapeno and of course
garlic el yucateco
chipotle hot sauce is made of chipotle
smoked jalapeno
with additional of corn syrup to the
original mix
which one now that's a secret
perhaps the most widely known exhibit on
this list is jalapeno pepper
it's hot it's spicy and comes in both
green and red varieties
sentaka chili pepper originates from
japan and belongs to the mirasol kind of
chile
it means that the peppers grow inwards
looking at the sun
high river sauce's chiba gold is indeed
golden
but don't let its color confuse you it's
very high
peaches lemon and mustard are added to
the mix for good measure
chipotle smoked pepper has already been
featured earlier
but when it's raw it's much spicier than
when added to a sauce
it's made exclusively of jalapeno
peppers
el yukatico extra hot habanero
there's nothing but habanero pepper
tomato spices and vinegar in the mix
which makes it really spicy
serrano pepper gets its name from the
mountains of the puebla and hidalgo
regions of mexico
where it originates from the word for
those is
sierra manzano pepper is different from
the usual hot chilies
in both its shape and flavor it looks
like a small
apple and has pretty obvious fruity
notes in its taste
that is if you're able to tolerate the
heat
tabasco pepper is what one of the most
famous hot sauce companies takes its
name from
but then the pepper itself is named
after a mexican state of tabasco
if you aim high on our heat rating then
cayenne pepper is for you
surprisingly cayenne pepper powder may
not even contain its main component
and may be made of entirely different
types of pepper
pecan pepper also originates from the
state of tabasco
but is even hotter than the state's
namesake the peppers are small in
comparison with
other species but they're generally
about eight times
spicier than jalapeno mad dog inferno
hot sauce
is based on pepper extract with molasses
vinegar cloves and spices
its heat value is so high you'll be
getting the burning sensation in your
mouth for up to 20 minutes
there are 79 different varieties of thai
pepper but all of them range from
50 000 to 100 000 on the scoville rating
in its original birthplace of thailand
though there are only three
bahamian pepper just like the sweet bell
pepper
can be of a green yellow orange and red
variety
all of them are equally and extremely
hot though
the indian bred tabichi powder is a kind
that can be grown and harvested all year
round
it's small with thin and wrinkled skin
and it packs a hot punch
hey just like me carolina
cayenne pepper looks quite similar to
the cayenne pepper without the prefix
but it's twice as hot the only
difference in appearance
is that the carolina variety is a bit
wider
predator great white shark really bites
but does it with light fruity notes
papaya banana and pineapple will taste
good on your tongue
at least until the heat strikes
originated in 1993 dave's gourmet
insanity sauce was the first to use
capsaicin extract directly
this made it easily 35 times hotter than
jalapeno peppers
jamaican hot pepper has three main
varieties chocolate
brown yellow and red the latter is a bit
spicier than the rest
although all of them pack quite a bunch
scotch bonnet pepper is one that's
guaranteed to make your eyes water and
your mouth
burn but there's also a completely
peaceful sweet variety of this little
beast called
ka-chucha kazantite
bad boy chili shakes boasts three kinds
of hot pepper
naga scorpion and carolina reaper
all of them are super hot and don't be
surprised they haven't shown up on this
list yet
they certainly will red savina pepper
is specially cultivated habanero that's
bigger and juicier than its originator
until 2007 it held the guinness world
record as the spiciest pepper in the
world
mad dog 357 with bullet keychain
has a tasting spoon in its namesake
chain it's made from habanero peppers
and no wonder
and boost capsaicin extract as part of
its recipe
you might remember me mentioning it
earlier dorset naga is a wrinkly
nightmare of a chili pepper
it began its history in dorset england
and was selected from naga morich
peppers from bangladesh
as crazy as it sounds one million
scoville pepper extract
is a hot sauce that can make your
domestic animals unlikely to nibble on
your plants
it says so right on the cover another
guinness world record holder on my list
ghost pepper it was a champ for close to
four years
but then was bested twice you'll learn
in a minute
chili peppers pete's dragon blood triple
x
ultra hot sauce can boast three types of
chili extracts
ranging from a half a million to 12
million scovilles
pineapple juice is probably what makes
it milder than the sum of those parts
naga viper pepper is the result of
selective breeding of naga morich
ghost pepper and trinidad scorpion not
the arachnid
it's another pepper variety speaking of
which
trinidad scorpion butch tea pepper holds
the honorable place as the second
hottest pepper to date
with almost 1.5 million units on the
scoville scale
even one drop of its extract is enough
to make you forget how to breathe
sevenpod dogla pepper tops at more
scoville ratings
as the previous contender but its
average heat unfortunately
isn't enough to place it in the guinness
world records but it can still be proud
i guess blair's 3am
not only packs a punch like a gorilla to
the head but is also
quite stylish according to the company
it's the first time the package design
has been changed since the 90s
yep the standard pepper spray you'd use
for self-defense
is as hot as some of the hottest sauces
in the world
people eat that stuff i wonder why
anyone would do that to themselves
finally the hot and mighty carolina
reaper
the absolute champion of hot peppers
it's a current record holder for being
the spiciest pepper in the world
if you can call that level of heat being
spicy
but wait it says here that dragon's
breath pepper
is the hottest ah it's the unofficial
title
measuring at almost two and a half
million scovilles
this pepper would probably burn your
tongue knob
another crazy hot spice here mad dog 38
special three million scoville
it also says the sauce can become hard
and you should heat it in the oven if
that occurs
heat the heat remember i said there was
a champ
of peppers well pepper axe is a serious
contender for that title
it's still unofficial just like dragon's
breath but if true
then it's simply unsafe to even nibble
at this beast
now the source try to pronounce it in a
british way that's nice
anyways the source is another pepper
extract
but it comes in a sealed box with a
legend on its back
i guess 7.1 million scovilles is not a
joke we're getting as serious as it gets
homocapsaicin is an irritant used in
medicine
and you can't just go to a store and buy
it as a spice
yet still it's only half as hot as
what's at the top of this list blair's
2005 halloween reserve is a hot spice
whose scoville rating is pretty scary
all by itself
there are only 299 of these nasty
bottles in the world
the skull on the cap of blair's 16
million reserve
kind of hints at its quality the
manufacturer warns
that you should avoid skin contact with
this evil stuff
does that include your mouth pure
capsaicin is twice as hot as homo
capsaicin
and it's an irritant substance it
doesn't have a color
but just like oil it'll stay on top of
water if you put a drop of the stuff on
it
and finally drumroll please rtx it's a
natural component too
but you shouldn't even try to put it
anywhere near your tongue
it's a thousand times more potent than
pure capsaicin
which makes it the hottest substance
ever sheesh